Hiawatha back in this video we're talking about multiple inheritance and a lot of people will tell you
multiple inheritance is evil because it is unnecessarily confusing.
Python has a nice mechanism for multiple inheritance but if I'm honest with you I have never once encountered
a situation where I had to use multiple inheritance.
I'm still going to explain it to you just so you can have a wee think about it but I'm not really sure
if this is very useful but nevertheless I'm going to create a new file here in this project called multiple
inheritance and we're going to go over how you do multiple inheritance in Python.
I can't think of any good examples so I'm just going to go and revert back to the standard example.
I'm going to create class a class B and I'm going to get class c.
Ok I appreciate this may be unnecessarily confusing because I've just never used multiple inheritance
before.
Not sure when I would use it but nevertheless maybe one day you will find a situation where this is
useful and if so by all means don't use it in class.
A I'm going to define a method called chi and this method is going to print Hello.
So just a normal sort of method that does something in class B.
I'm also going to define a method high but in this case it prints hello with an A OK and class C is
going to inherit from both class A and class B.
In Python This is how we do it.
We simply separate the classes with a comma on the brackets for inheritance.
So the brackets after class C we can put their class a comma class B.
Ok so I'm going to create an object of type C and then I'm going to do C. dot.
Hi what do you think is going to get printed out.
Would it be hello or would it be hello.
Well let's give it a run.
It.
There we go up.
Hello.
So it is the first one and in Python the way it works is whenever you try to execute a method or access
a property it will go into Class A and it will see if it's there and if it's not there the little go
into class B and see if it's there.
But as soon as it finds it it will just return that.
Naturally if we reverted to the order of class A in class B where we get printed out is bloat with an
A.
Also something to remember is that if Class A also inherits from something else
then it will be this high method that gets called Unless class A overwrites it.
So if Class A doesn't overwrite it.
What will get printed out is you are here because we go into Class A.
We don't find it there so we go into classes.
A parent class and we find it there and it would continue doing that until it doesn't have a super class
.
So this class doesn't have a super class so it stops there.
OK let's remove that
and then do that.
Hi.
And now we are going to create another method here in Class B which just prints in class B.
And as you probably would expect if we type C..
Got another even though we see is a Class C.
What's going to happen is we're going to go into Class A looking for this method.
We're not going to find it so then we're going to go into class B.
We're going to find a way.
So you would expect in class B to be printed out and that is indeed what happens.
So this is how you do multiple inheritance in Python.
And just remember that we start with the first class and go into each of the parent classes and then
go into the next one and into each of the parent classes and so on.
And that's how you do multiple inheritance.
As I said I've never used it before and a lot of people find it very confusing.
It's not that confusing.
That's just what happens.
But there's not that many use cases for it at least not that I found.
But if you do find one by all means go ahead and use that.
So nothing nothing bad with it.
And let me know if you do find one and I will be quite curious as well.
So that's everything for this video and I'll see you in the very next one.